>> Todd Gardner: Okay, the third tactic
is that there's some resources that we're
downloading that aren't
really on the critical path.
We don't really need to do this,
specifically, JavaScript.
Now, here's what our waterfall
kind of looks like right now.
This is a thing that could be happening,
where we're downloading a bunch of stuff
at the beginning, and there's a JavaScript
file that happens, and a CSS file.
And then the CSS file is done,
but it sits there and
waits for a long time before downloading
another one and then FCP happens.
There's this big gap where nothing
seems to be downloading and
what's going on there?
Well, that's where we need to look at
the flame chart, because the flame,
there's a reason why that flame chart and
the waterfall chart are shown together.
They are two views of the same thing.
And what we would see here is that
at the end of the script file,
the script file has to be evaluated,
compiled, and
executed, synchronously, right?
As soon as it's done, that's gonna
execute, and it's just gonna do its thing.
So if you've done a bunch of
obnoxiously large complex JavaScript,
it can stop rendering from happening
that might not otherwise be involved.
It's important to note because
JavaScript is parser blocking.
When the browser encounters a script tag,
it immediately
starts downloading it, and
as soon as it's done downloading it,
it stops what it's doing, and
executes it, right then and there.
It prevents parsing any further content,
it prevents any further rendering, and
prevents main execution from happening.
And so, what's essentially happening
here is that, in this time,
when that script has come down, the thread
is blocked, the CSS file that we already
started downloading, it continues to
download, that doesn't get interrupted.
But anything new, the browser is no longer
able to parse the HTML or figure out
anything new that needs to start because
it's busy working on that JavaScript.
So, how do we get around that?
My site dev stickers doesn't necessarily
need this JavaScript to run.
It's add on functionality once
the user starts using it.
But it doesn't need to be
there to start running.
And so, we need to defer it,
we need to tell it to execute later.
Go ahead and
start downloading it whenever, but
don't run it until we're almost done.
And that's this script defer attribute.
Now, there's a couple of other
attributes that are interesting.
You might also see script async.
You might have used async or
used defer, and been like,
I don't know why I'm using one or
the other, how are they different?
Why are these two things in existence that
do almost what seems to be the same thing?
And that's cuz they're not
exactly the same thing,
there's a subtle difference between them.
So if we have a plain old script, we just
have script in the head of the page.
This is the waterfall we get,
which is what we looked at.
Soon as that script is done, the execution
stops, we evaluate that script,
we compile that script, and
we execute that script, and
everything stops while
that gets happening.
If we instead, decorate that script with
an async, what that's saying is that,
go ahead and start downloading it,
whenever you're ready,
whenever you have the capacity.
But as soon as it's done,
it will still block and execute, or block,
evaluate, compile, and execute,
is whenever it's done.
Now, that's interesting, it sounds like
what we want, it says, go ahead and
start it later, but we don't really
have control of what later means.
Later could still be right away,
the browser thinks,
I have plenty of capacity to download
things, I'm still gonna start right away,
or it can mean 10 milliseconds or
100 milliseconds later.
It's kind of variable, we don't know.
The real problem here is that, by saying
this is async, we've started a race.
We've started a race between our CSS
files and our JavaScript files, and
if the CSS file wins,
we feel like everything worked great.
Rendering didn't get blocked, things work.
But, if the JavaScript file wins,
the JavaScript file returns faster than
the CSS file, we have the same problem.
And the sooner the JavaScript is done,
it blocks that same execution.
Which is why sometimes
what you'll see is that,
things don't get any better when you add
the async attribute, it's not 100% there.
So let's talk about defer instead.
Defer says, go ahead and
download this whenever you're ready,
but I will not ever start to execute
it until just before DOMContentLoaded.
It's gonna take all the scripts that
are deferred, and it's gonna wait until
DOMContentLoaded is about to happen,
and then it's going to execute them.
So, in this case, it'd be like, all right,
if the two files are racing and
the JavaScript file ends second.
And that's the last thing to do, it says,
great, there's nothing else for me to do,
go ahead and start executing it, and
then we'll fire DOMContentLoaded.
But there's no race condition here either,
because if the JavaScript file
comes down sooner, it still waits, and
waits for everything else to be done
before firing or before executing
things right before DOMContentLoaded.
So, in most cases, you wanna use defer.
There's only a handful of cases
where it async makes sense.
Chances are, that's not your use case.
The other thing that's kind of
interesting about it, is that,
there's an indirect relationship between
deferred scripts, is that, if you have
three scripts that are all deferred, their
order of execution will be maintained.
The first script will execute, the second
one will execute, and the third one will.
Even if they download
it in different order,
they'll be executed in the order that
they were discovered in the document.
One little note, deferred,
I don't know how many people do this, but
script support type module for
you to use modern scripting.
If you add type module,
it is always deferred.
You don't have to say deferred,
you can't undo deferred,
you can't control it at all,
they will always be deferred.
>> Todd Gardner: One question that I get a
lot is, where should I put my script tags?
Should I put them in the head?
Should I put them right
before the end of body?
Where do they go?
Honestly, it probably
doesn't matter anymore.
It used to be before we had script defer,
that you'd put them in body to control, or
you'd put them at the end of your page in
order to control when they would execute.
You wanted to make sure
they didn't block anything.
But script defer largely does that.
Now, the only thing this really does is it
forces the order of when we're gonna start
fetching different resources rather
than letting the browser figure it out.
If we just leave them in the head and
put defer on it, we let the browser say,
if you have capacity to download this,
go ahead and start.
But if you put it in the body,
the browser doesn't even know about
it until it gets to those scripts.
And so, largely,
it doesn't matter anymore.
You can leave them wherever it makes
sense for you ergonomically and
just use the defer attribute.
And that's what we're gonna do right now.
So, I'm gonna pop back open
to our application, and
right here in my index.html,
if I scroll down a little bit,
I have my two scripts,
scripts.js and promo.js.
And neither of them need
to happen right here,
neither of them are part
of First Contentful Paint.
So, I'm gonna just add the defer
attribute to both of them, save that up.
And we're gonna just go ahead and
deploy this, and
we're gonna check the full
thing out in production.
All right, so, now,
let's take a look at our CDN,
and we will rerun our performance check.
Sorry, go ahead.
>> Speaker 2: What would be the difference
if you left the async off of
the script tag?
>> Todd Gardner: If I left defer or
if I left async?
>> Speaker 2: Async.
>> Todd Gardner: There's nothing,
like async or
defer are mutually exclusive.
You choose that it's either a deferred
script or it's an async script.
I don't know which one
wins if you put them both.
>> Speaker 2: But if you were to just
leave off the word async and it was just
blank, just a script and then source or-
>> Todd Gardner: Yeah,
if you don't do anything,
this is the behavior if you do nothing.
So the script starts
executing immediately.
It starts downloading immediately, and
as soon as it's done, it will block and
execute.
If you defer it, or if you async it,
it might not start right away,
like you're saying,
even though I discovered you right away,
start downloading it whenever
the browser's ready.
But as soon as it's done,
block and execute.
And defer, go ahead and
wait until you're ready to execute it, and
then don't bother, or wait until
you're ready to start downloading it,
and then don't execute it until
you've hit DOMContentLoaded.
Then you can go ahead and execute it.
>> Speaker 3: Okay,
it's right before DOMContentLoaded-
>> Todd Gardner: It's technically,
it happens before DOMContentLoaded,
but that's the event it's tied to.
When the browser's ready
to do DOMContentLoaded,
before it fires that event,
it executes all the deferred scripts.
And the reason is that those scripts
can then listen to DOMContentLoaded as
they're, hey,
I am ready to start kind of event.
Where's if it was after it, then
DOMContentLoaded may already fired, and
then they're in a sequence
which just never work.
>> Speaker 2: So if you defer a script and
then you have within the script
DOMContentLoaded-
>> Todd Gardner: Which is what I do.
>> Speaker 2: So,
that's not really [INAUDIBLE] or
is it-
>> Todd Gardner: Yeah, so
that's exactly what I'm talking about.
So here in scripts.js,
which is now deferred,
my first line is,
addEventListener DOMContentLoaded,
cuz that's what I'm listening for, which
is generally a safe thing to do, right?
Is, this script is gonna
do some DOM manipulation,
I wanna make sure that all the DOM
elements exist before I wake up and do it.
So I'm gonna wait for
DOMContentLoaded before I do my thing.
By deferring it, it's not gonna execute
this until just before DOMContentLoaded,
which means, I can still listen to it,
and I can still use it.
And I can still,
all of the same patterns that we would
use before still work equally well, but
we've just pushed when the script starts
up till as far out as we can wait.
Cool?
Yeah.
Great, all right, so
we deployed, we ran this thing.
Let's have a look at
what this looks like now.
We have our HTML coming down, and as the
HTML starts finishing, we realize, hey,
I need to download these fonts,
cuz we're preloading them.
And we download CSS2 and styles.bundle,
which has no sequence chains.
You'll notice, they're still flagged
because CSS is render blocking.
It's just saying, hey, this is important,
get these things done as fast as you can
because I can't render without them.
And then,
it knows that we need to execute or
we need to download and
execute scripts.js and promo.js.
It knows that they're there, but
they're still loading when FCP goes off,
FCP is not related.
We're no longer bound
by any of those things.
We are just waiting till we
get all of our CSS and fonts,
which we've started as soon
as we possibly can, and
this is now the shortest that we
can make it given these assets.
Now, if you need to make it shorter,
you need to find a way to do fewer
assets here, or smaller ones.
You could make the font smaller,
you could use less of them,
you could use more efficient ones,
whatever.
But with these assets, the way they are,
we've gotten them as fast and efficient
as we can get them, which honestly is
pretty fast considering where we are.
We are at 624 milliseconds
to first contentful paint.
So those were our three tactics for FCP.
We removed sequence chains.
We pre-loaded the resources that are on
the critical path, so we could start them
soon, and we lazy loaded everything else,
stuff that didn't need to be in the way.
We're trying to make our path to
FCP as fast as we possibly can.